[Humanized neurofibroma model from induced pluripotent stem cells delineates tumor pathogenesis and developmental origins]: Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a common tumor predisposition syndrome caused by NF1 gene mutation, in which affected patients develop Schwann cell lineage peripheral nerve sheath tumors (neurofibromas). To investigate human neurofibroma pathogenesis, we differentiated a series of isogenic, patient-specific NF1-mutant human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) into Schwannian lineage cells (SLCs). We found that, although WT and heterozygous NF1-mutant hiPSCs-SLCs did not form tumors following mouse sciatic nerve implantation, NF1-null SLCs formed bona fide neurofibromas with high levels of SOX10 expression. To confirm that SOX10+ SLCs contained the cells of origin for neurofibromas, both Nf1 alleles were inactivated in mouse Sox10+ cells, leading to classic nodular cutaneous and plexiform neurofibroma formation that completely recapitulated their human counterparts. Moreover, we discovered that NF1 loss impaired Schwann cell differentiation by inducing a persistent stem-like state to expand the pool of progenitors required to initiate tumor formation, indicating that, in addition to regulating MAPK-mediated cell growth, NF1 loss also altered Schwann cell differentiation to promote neurofibroma development. Taken together, we established a complementary humanized neurofibroma explant and, to our knowledge, first-in-kind genetically engineered nodular cutaneous neurofibroma mouse models that delineate neurofibroma pathogenesis amenable to future therapeutic target discovery and evaluation.
[Management of neurofibromatosis type 1-associated plexiform neurofibromas]: Plexiform Neurofibromas (PN) are a common manifestation of the genetic disorder neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). These benign nerve sheath tumors often cause significant morbidity, with treatment options limited historically to surgery. There have been tremendous advances over the past two decades in our understanding of PN, and the recent regulatory approvals of the MEK inhibitor selumetinib are reshaping the landscape for PN management. At present, there is no agreed upon PN definition, diagnostic evaluation, surveillance strategy, or clear indications for when to initiate treatment and selection of treatment modality. In this review, we address these questions via consensus recommendations from a panel of multidisciplinary NF1 experts.
[Diagnostic Pathology of Tumors of Peripheral Nerve]: Neoplasms of the peripheral nervous system represent a heterogenous group with a wide spectrum of morphological features and biological potential. They range from benign and curable by complete excision (schwannoma and soft tissue perineurioma) to benign but potentially aggressive at the local level (plexiform neurofibroma) to the highly malignant (malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors [MPNST]). In this review, we discuss the diagnostic and pathologic features of common peripheral nerve sheath tumors, particularly those that may be encountered in the intracranial compartment or in the spine and paraspinal region. The discussion will cover schwannoma, neurofibroma, atypical neurofibromatous neoplasms of uncertain biological potential, intraneural and soft tissue perineurioma, hybrid nerve sheath tumors, MPNST, and the recently renamed enigmatic tumor, malignant melanotic nerve sheath tumor, formerly referred to as melanotic schwannoma. We also discuss the diagnostic relevance of these neoplasms to specific genetic and familial syndromes of nerve, including neurofibromatosis 1, neurofibromatosis 2, and schwannomatosis. In addition, we discuss updates in our understanding of the molecular alterations that represent key drivers of these neoplasms, including neurofibromatosis type 1 and type 2, SMARCB1, LZTR1, and PRKAR1A loss, as well as the acquisition of CDKN2A/B mutations and alterations in the polycomb repressor complex members (SUZ12 and EED) in the malignant progression to MPNST. In summary, this review covers practical aspects of pathologic diagnosis with updates relevant to neurosurgical practice.
[Benign small bowel tumor]: The clinical record and histologic sections of 84 cases of benign small bowel tumor are reviewed. Manifestations of systemic diseases, congenital anomalies, and lesions of either the ileocecal valve or periampullary region were excluded. In the same time span there were 96 small bowel malignancies. Clinical presentation, pathologic findings, management and result are compared to the collected published experience of about 2000 cases. There were 36 leiomyomas, 22 lipomas, 9 angiomas, 6 neurofibromas and 4 fibromas. Thirty-six men and 48 women were affected; the majority in their fifth and sixth decade. Seventy-eight were operative and 6 autopsy diagnoses. The most common symptom was obstruction (42%) followed by hemorrhage (34%) and pain (22%), relative frequency differing for the various specific tumors. There were rarely significant physical findings. A diagnosis of small bowel tumor was made radiologically in 30 patients. Because of the nonspecificity of other signs and symptoms, an acute awareness of the possibility of small bowel tumor is mandatory for preoperative anticipation of the diagnosis. Local resection was performed in all with no deaths or significant postoperative complications.
[Xeroderma Pigmentosum]: Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) is a rare disorder of defective UV-radiation induced damage repair that is characterized by photosensitivity with easy skin burning following minimal sun exposure, early freckling and development of lentiginous pigmentation along with other features of poikiloderma and a propensity for developing skin cancer at an early age. In this short review, the clinical, pathological, genetic and molecular aspects of XP are reviewed in the current literature. XP encompasses a spectrum of disease that overlaps with other diseases of DNA repair systems. In addition to cutaneous complications, patients are susceptible to eye conditions, neurodegenerative processes, central nervous system tumors and other tumors as a result of UV radiation exposure and its byproducts. Patients with XP frequently experience a shorter life span due to skin cancer and neurodegenerative sequelae, but aggressive preventative measures to minimize UV radiation exposure and damage can improve the course of disease and prolong life. The disease has served as a model for photoaging and UV radiation-induced cancer and has led to a better understanding of cell processes that prevent development of these disease features in normal individuals.
[Acute leukemia in adults: recent developments in diagnosis and treatment]: Major advances in the diagnosis, classification, and treatment of adult acute leukemias have resulted in significant increases in the number of complete remissions and long-term disease-free survivors. Despite these improvements, most adult patients with acute leukemias still eventually die from their disease or complications of its treatment. New experimental and clinical approaches used to diagnose, monitor, and treat these diseases hold promise for further increased cure rates in the future. This article reviews the classification, immunobiology, cytogenetics, diagnosis, and treatment of adult acute leukemias and describes new directions being taken toward their cure.
[Desmoplastic Melanomas Mimicking Neurofibromas]: Desmoplastic melanoma can be difficult to diagnose and on average have a significantly higher T stage at the time of diagnosis compared with conventional melanomas. Histologically, these tumors typically consist of spindle cells in a fibrous matrix. The spindle cells may display fibroblast and/or Schwann cell-like features. In this study, we describe the features of 12 cases of desmoplastic melanoma closely simulating neurofibroma. Although the spindle cells in these tumors may be indistinguishable from those of neurofibroma, features such as prominent fibroplasia (12/12), poor lateral circumscription (8/9), diffuse infiltration of subcutaneous tissue (7/9), and lymphoid aggregates (10/12) may be helpful clues to the diagnosis. No immunohistochemical markers were reliable in distinguishing neurofibroma-like desmoplastic melanomas from neurofibroma. Clinical follow-up was available in 8 cases, of which 4 were initially misdiagnosed as benign neoplasms and given no further re-excision. All 4 of these cases recurred; 2 of which showed transformation to a more aggressive phenotype.
[Virus-erythrocyte interactions]: This chapter summarizes the experimental evidence bearing on the nature of virus-erythrocyte reactions characteristic of several taxonomic groups.. Such evidence is culled from (1) the study of conditions necessary for hemagglutination; (2) the examination of specific factors affecting either the cell or the virion to enhance, alter, or abolish the reaction; and (3) the direct physicochemical analysis of cells, viruses, and “receptor analogs.” The hemadsorption phenomenon also provides evidence for virus-erythrocyte interactions, which is based on the attachment of erythrocytes to infected cells in culture having hemagglutinin at their surfaces. This phenomenon reflects the interaction between erythrocytes and viral envelope components. The major virus groups that react with erythrocytes include myxoviruses, paramyxoviruses, pseudomyxoviruses, adenoviruses, arboviruses, reoviruses, enteroviruses, and miscellaneous hemagglutinating viruse (rubella virus, coronaviruses, rhabdoviruses, and oncogenic viruses). The agglutination of erythrocytes by the direct action of viral particles was first described in connection with myxoviruses. This led directly to the discovery of viral neuraminidase—a property unique to myxoviruses and paramyxoviruses. A number of viruses unrelated to myxoviruses have since been shown to agglutinate erythrocytes of various species. The visible result of viral hemagglutination is the “pattern” formed at the bottom of a test tube or well plate by lattices of red cells lightly conjoined by viral hemagglutinin. Hemagglutination serves as a useful direct means of titering intact viral particles or hemagglutinating subunits.
[Special Issue: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus and Related Pestiviruses]: The genus Pestivirus, encompassing small positive-strand RNA viruses in the family Flaviviridae, comprises four viruses of very significant economic impact to the cattle, swine and sheep industries worldwide: bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) type 1 and type 2, classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and border disease virus (BDV). Both BVDV- and CSFV-related disease syndromes have been recognised for over 70 years and major progress has been made in elucidating the pathogenesis of these important infections of ruminants and pigs [...].
[Colour in the eyes of insects]: Many insect species have darkly coloured eyes, but distinct colours or patterns are frequently featured. A number of exemplary cases of flies and butterflies are discussed to illustrate our present knowledge of the physical basis of eye colours, their functional background, and the implications for insect colour vision. The screening pigments in the pigment cells commonly determine the eye colour. The red screening pigments of fly eyes and the dorsal eye regions of dragonflies allow stray light to photochemically restore photoconverted visual pigments. A similar role is played by yellow pigment granules inside the photoreceptor cells which function as a light-controlling pupil. Most insect eyes contain black screening pigments which prevent stray light to produce background noise in the photoreceptors. The eyes of tabanid flies are marked by strong metallic colours, due to multilayers in the corneal facet lenses. The corneal multilayers in the gold-green eyes of the deer fly Chrysops relictus reduce the lens transmission in the orange-green, thus narrowing the sensitivity spectrum of photoreceptors having a green absorbing rhodopsin. The tapetum in the eyes of butterflies probably enhances the spectral sensitivity of proximal long-wavelength photoreceptors. Pigment granules lining the rhabdom fine-tune the sensitivity spectra.
[Armored eyes of the whale shark]: This report elaborates on adaptations of the eyes of the whale shark Rhincodon typus (Elasmobranchii, Rhincodontidae), including the discovery that they are covered with dermal denticles, which is a novel mechanism of eye protection in vertebrates. The eye denticle differs in morphology from that of the dermal denticles distributed over the rest of the body, consistent with a different function (abrasion resistance). We also demonstrate that the whale shark has a strong ability to retract the eyeball into the eye socket. The retraction distance was calculated to be approximately half the diameter of the eye, which is comparable to those of other vertebrates that are known to have highly retractable eyes. These highly protective features of the whale shark eye seem to emphasize the importance of vision for environmental perception, which contradicts the general, though poorly established, notion of low reliance on vision in this species.
[The gut microbiota influences blood-brain barrier permeability in mice]: Pivotal to brain development and function is an intact blood-brain barrier (BBB), which acts as a gatekeeper to control the passage and exchange of molecules and nutrients between the circulatory system and the brain parenchyma. The BBB also ensures homeostasis of the central nervous system (CNS). We report that germ-free mice, beginning with intrauterine life, displayed increased BBB permeability compared to pathogen-free mice with a normal gut flora. The increased BBB permeability was maintained in germ-free mice after birth and during adulthood and was associated with reduced expression of the tight junction proteins occludin and claudin-5, which are known to regulate barrier function in endothelial tissues. Exposure of germ-free adult mice to a pathogen-free gut microbiota decreased BBB permeability and up-regulated the expression of tight junction proteins. Our results suggest that gut microbiota-BBB communication is initiated during gestation and propagated throughout life.
[The efficient Lamarckian spread of life in the cosmos]: In this Chapter we discuss the various mechanisms that are available for the possible transfer of cosmic microbial living systems from one cosmic habitat to another. With the 100 or so habitable planets that are now known to exist in our galaxy alone transfers of cometary dust carrying life including fragments of icy planetoids/asteroids would be expected to occur on a routine basis. It is thus easy to view the galaxy as a single connected "biosphere" of which our planet Earth is a minor component. The Hoyle-Wickramasinghe Panspermia paradigm provides a cogent biological rationale for the actual widespread existence of Lamarckian modes of inheritance in terrestrial systems (which we review here). Thus the Panspermia paradigm provides the raison d'etre for Lamarckian Inheritance. Under a terrestrially confined neoDarwinian viewpoint such an association may have been thought spurious in the past. Our aim here is to outline the main evidence for rapid terrestrial-based Lamarckian-based evolutionary hypermutation processes dependent on reverse transcription-coupled mechanisms among others. Such rapid adaptation mechanisms would be consistent with the effective cosmic spread of living systems. For example, a viable, or cryo-preserved, living system traveling through space in a protective matrix will of necessity need to adapt rapidly and proliferate on landing in a new cosmic niche. Lamarckian mechanisms thus come to the fore and supersede the slow (blind and random) genetic processes expected under neoDarwinian Earth centred theories.
[Recent Advancements in Pathogenesis, Diagnostics and Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease]: Background: The only conclusive way to diagnose Alzheimer's is to carry out brain autopsy of the patient's brain tissue and ascertain whether the subject had Alzheimer's or any other form of dementia. However, due to the non-feasibility of such methods, to diagnose and conclude the conditions, medical practitioners use tests that examine a patient's mental ability.Objective: Accurate diagnosis at an early stage is the need of the hour for initiation of therapy. The cause for most Alzheimer's cases still remains unknown except where genetic distinctions have been observed. Thus, a standard drug regimen ensues in every Alzheimer's patient, irrespective of the cause, which may not always be beneficial in halting or reversing the disease progression. To provide a better life to such patients by suppressing existing symptoms, early diagnosis, curative therapy, site-specific delivery of drugs, and application of hyphenated methods like artificial intelligence need to be brought into the main field of Alzheimer's therapeutics. Methods: In this review, we have compiled existing hypotheses to explain the cause of the disease, and highlighted gene therapy, immunotherapy, peptidomimetics, metal chelators, probiotics and quantum dots as advancements in the existing strategies to manage Alzheimer's. Conclusion: Biomarkers, brain-imaging, and theranostics, along with artificial intelligence, are understood to be the future of the management of Alzheimer's.
[Interaction between drugs and the gut microbiome]: The human gut microbiome is a complex ecosystem that can mediate the interaction of the human host with their environment. The interaction between gut microbes and commonly used non-antibiotic drugs is complex and bidirectional: gut microbiome composition can be influenced by drugs, but, vice versa, the gut microbiome can also influence an individual's response to a drug by enzymatically transforming the drug's structure and altering its bioavailability, bioactivity or toxicity (pharmacomicrobiomics). The gut microbiome can also indirectly impact an individual's response to immunotherapy in cancer treatment. In this review we discuss the bidirectional interactions between microbes and drugs, describe the changes in gut microbiota induced by commonly used non-antibiotic drugs, and their potential clinical consequences and summarise how the microbiome impacts drug effectiveness and its role in immunotherapy. Understanding how the microbiome metabolises drugs and reduces treatment efficacy will unlock the possibility of modulating the gut microbiome to improve treatment.